Adding security installation information #20231130 (#6605)
opensearch-project/documentation-website: _security/configuration/disable-enable-security.md

---
layout: default
title: Disabling and enabling the Security plugin
parent: Configuration
nav_order: 40
has_toc: true
redirect_from: 
 - /security-plugin/configuration/disable/
---

# Disabling and enabling the Security plugin

> If you're interested in using OpenSearch without security to make testing or internal usage more straightforward, you can temporarily disable the Security plugin. OpenSearch uses two separate security plugins, one for OpenSearch (Security plugin) and one of OpenSearch Dashboards (OpenSearch Dashboards Security plugin) You can use the OpenSearch by [disabling the Security plugin](#disabling-security) or [uninstalling the plugin](#removing-the-security-plugin).  However by default OpenSearch Dashboards, requires a secured OpenSearch cluster, which means that the OpenSearch Dashboards Security plugin must be [uninstalled](#removing-the-opensearch-dashboards-security-plugin) from OpenSearch Dashboards in order to use Dashboards without security.

Reviewer: I don't think my second paragraph is technically correct, but I'm trying to make sense of the functionality. :)

> If you're interested in using OpenSearch without security to make testing or internal usage more straightforward, you can temporarily disable the Security plugin. OpenSearch uses two separate security plugins, one for OpenSearch (Security plugin) and one of OpenSearch Dashboards (OpenSearch Dashboards Security plugin) You can use the OpenSearch by [disabling the Security plugin](#disabling-security) or [uninstalling the plugin](#removing-the-security-plugin).  However by default OpenSearch Dashboards, requires a secured OpenSearch cluster, which means that the OpenSearch Dashboards Security plugin must be [uninstalled](#removing-the-opensearch-dashboards-security-plugin) from OpenSearch Dashboards in order to use Dashboards without security.

Author: I'm not sue if 'permanent' is suitable here, since the plugin can of course be reinstalled at a later stage.
Perhaps: "If you want a more longer term option, you can remove the plugin completely, you can install the security plugin again when you are ready to secure the cluster."

> If you're interested in using OpenSearch without security to make testing or internal usage more straightforward, you can temporarily disable the Security plugin. OpenSearch uses two separate security plugins, one for OpenSearch (Security plugin) and one of OpenSearch Dashboards (OpenSearch Dashboards Security plugin) You can use the OpenSearch by [disabling the Security plugin](#disabling-security) or [uninstalling the plugin](#removing-the-security-plugin).  However by default OpenSearch Dashboards, requires a secured OpenSearch cluster, which means that the OpenSearch Dashboards Security plugin must be [uninstalled](#removing-the-opensearch-dashboards-security-plugin) from OpenSearch Dashboards in order to use Dashboards without security.

Reviewer 2: Reasons for uninstalling OpenSearch core:

- If you have your own security solution. 
- If you need to uninstall plugin for development purposes.

I'll add this detail in the next pass.

> If you're interested in using OpenSearch without security to make testing or internal usage more straightforward, you can temporarily disable the Security plugin. OpenSearch uses two separate security plugins, one for OpenSearch (Security plugin) and one of OpenSearch Dashboards (OpenSearch Dashboards Security plugin) You can use the OpenSearch by [disabling the Security plugin](#disabling-security) or [uninstalling the plugin](#removing-the-security-plugin).  However by default OpenSearch Dashboards, requires a secured OpenSearch cluster, which means that the OpenSearch Dashboards Security plugin must be [uninstalled](#removing-the-opensearch-dashboards-security-plugin) from OpenSearch Dashboards in order to use Dashboards without security.

Reviewer 2: If you remove one Security plugin from OpenSearch core, you have to remove it from OpenSearch Dashboards.

> If you're interested in using OpenSearch without security to make testing or internal usage more straightforward, you can temporarily disable the Security plugin. OpenSearch uses two seperate security plugins, one for OpenSearch (Security plugin) and one of OpenSearch Dashboards (OpenSearch Dashboards Security plugin) You can use the OpenSearch by [disabling the security plugin](#disabling-security) or [removing the Security plugin](#removing-the-security-plugin).  However by default OpenSearch Dashboards, requires a secured OpenSearch cluster, which means that the OpenSearch Dashboards Security plugin must be [uninstalled](#removing-the-opensearch-dashboards-security-plugin) from OpenSearch Dashboards in order to use Dashboards without security.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If you're interested in using OpenSearch without security to make testing or internal usage more straightforward, you can temporarily disable the Security plugin. OpenSearch uses two separate security plugins, one for OpenSearch (Security plugin) and one of OpenSearch Dashboards (OpenSearch Dashboards Security plugin) You can use the OpenSearch by [disabling the Security plugin](#disabling-security) or [uninstalling the plugin](#removing-the-security-plugin).  However by default OpenSearch Dashboards, requires a secured OpenSearch cluster, which means that the OpenSearch Dashboards Security plugin must be [uninstalled](#removing-the-opensearch-dashboards-security-plugin) from OpenSearch Dashboards in order to use Dashboards without security.
```

## Disabling security

To disable the Security plugin for OpenSearch, add the following line in `opensearch.yml`:

```yml
plugins.security.disabled: true
```

> 

Author: @hdhalter 'enabling' section is actually installing (adding) the plugin.

We could add similar section with `plugins.security.disabled: false`, but this only works if they have previously disabled the plugin (but still have it installed), and this is set to false by default.

Alternatively, we could rename enabling/disabling to installing/uninstalling, and have the disabling as a small side note as a temporary solution for users to stop security plugin without actually having to uninstall the plugin

   ```bash
   sudo systemctl stop opensearch-dashboards
   ```

1. Navigate to the OpenSearch Dashboards folder `/usr/share/opensearch-dashboards` and run the following command to uninstall the Security plugin:

   ```bash
   ./bin/opensearch-dashboards-plugin remove securityDashboards
   ```

1. Remove all Security plugin configuration settings from the `opensearch_dashboards.yml` file or place the example file in the `/etc/opensearch_dashboards` folder:

   ```yml
   ---
   server.name: opensearch-dashboards
   server.host: "0.0.0.0"
   opensearch.hosts: http://localhost:9200
   ```
1. Start OpenSearch Dashboards:
   ```bash
   sudo systemctl start opensearch-dashboards
   ```

## Enabling security

The default version of OpenSearch comes with Security features pre-installed, however if the Security plugin was [disabled]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/security/configuration/disable-enable-security/) or OpenSearch was installed without security, such as when using the minimal distribution method, you can enable the plugin as follows.

A full cluster restart is necessary to enable security features.
{: .warning}

### Installing the OpenSearch plugin

> Use the following steps to enable security:

Author: @hdhalter we might want to rename the headings entirely, to install/uninstall, rather than enable/disable

> 1. Disable shard allocation and stop all nodes in order to prevent shards from moving around when the cluster is restarted.

Reviewer: Is the numbering off?

Author: Good catch, yes, I will fix in the next push, once we agree on the rest of the points, thanks @hdhalter

---
layout: default
title: Disabling and enabling the Security plugin
parent: Configuration
nav_order: 40
has_toc: true
redirect_from: 
 - /security-plugin/configuration/disable/
---

# Disabling and enabling the Security plugin

> The Security plugin is installed by default with OpenSearch, but you can disable it temporarily if you want to make testing or internal usage more straightforward. You can then enable it once you're ready to configure security for your cluster. 

Reviewer 3: Nit: This line reads a little weird to me. I would consider rewording "if you want to make testing or internal usage more straightforward".

For instance "but you can temporarily disable it to streamline testing."

Author: change added

> The Security plugin is installed by default with OpenSearch, but you can temporarily disable it or remove it altogether. Disabling the plugin involves a change to the `opensearch.yml` file, and you may want to do this to streamline testing. A more substantive change is to remove the Security plugin completely. You might want to remove it if, for example, you have your own security solution or need to remove it for development purposes. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The Security plugin is installed by default when using OpenSearch, but you can temporarily disable it or remove it altogether. Disabling the plugin involves a change to the `opensearch.yml` file, and you may want to do this to streamline testing. A more substantive change is to remove the Security plugin completely. You might want to remove it if, for example, you have your own security solution or need to remove it for development purposes. 
```

> If you have your own security solution or need to remove the Security plugin for development purposes, you can uninstall the plugin completely. Note that OpenSearch Dashboards can run only against a secure cluster, so if you uninstall the OpenSearch Security plugin, you'll have to also uninstall the Dashboard plugin. 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
If you have your own security solution or need to remove the Security plugin for development purposes, you can uninstall the plugin completely. Note that OpenSearch Dashboards can only run against a secure cluster; if you uninstall the OpenSearch Security plugin, you'll have to also uninstall the Dashboard plugin. 
```

## Disabling security

To disable the Security plugin for OpenSearch, add the following line in `opensearch.yml`:

```yml
plugins.security.disabled: true
```

## Removing the Security plugin

> If you want to remove the Security plugin in your OpenSearch instance without changing your configuration settings in `opensearch.yml`, use the following steps.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
While using the Security plugin is always recommended, if you do need to completely remove the Security plugin from your OpenSearch instance, you are able to still keep your other `opensearch.yml` settings. You can take the following steps to permanently remove the Security plugin from your cluster: 
```

Author: I'm updated to:
'''
While using the Security plugin is always recommended, if you do need to completely remove the Security plugin from your OpenSearch instance, you can take the following steps:
'''
As this is not necessary a permanent (irreversible) action, probably best to avoid "permanently"

> We recommend that you take advantage of the rich features of the Security plugin, but you can completely remove the Security plugin from your OpenSearch instance. Note that OpenSearch Dashboards can only run against a secure cluster, so if you uninstall the OpenSearch Security plugin, you'll have to also uninstall the Dashboard plugin. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can completely remove the Security plugin from your OpenSearch instance. Note that OpenSearch Dashboards can only run against a secure cluster, so if you uninstall the OpenSearch Security plugin, you'll have to also uninstall the Security Dashboard plugin. 
```

### Removing the Security plugin from OpenSearch

> Do the following to remove the plugin from the OpenSearch core.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Do the following to remove the plugin from the OpenSearch.
```

---
layout: default
title: Disabling and enabling the Security plugin
parent: Configuration
nav_order: 40
has_toc: true
redirect_from: 
 - /security-plugin/configuration/disable/
---

# Disabling and enabling the Security plugin

> The Security plugin is installed by default when using OpenSearch, but you can temporarily disable it or remove it altogether. Disabling the plugin involves a change to the `opensearch.yml` file, and you may want to do this to streamline testing. A more substantive change is to remove the Security plugin completely. You might want to remove it if, for example, you have your own security solution or need to remove it for development purposes. 

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
The Security plugin is installed by default with OpenSearch, but you can temporarily disable it or remove it altogether. Disabling the plugin involves a change to the `opensearch.yml` file; you may want to do this to streamline testing. A more substantive change is required to remove the Security plugin completely. You might want to remove it if, for example, you are using your own security solution or need to remove it for development purposes. 
```

Disabling or removing the plugin exposes the configuration index for the Security plugin. If the index contains sensitive information, make sure to protect it through some other means. If you no longer need the index, delete it.
{: .warning }

> Disabling, removing, or installing the Security plugin requires a full cluster restart to enable security features.

Reviewer: I don't understand this line. Why would disabling or removing the plugin require a cluster restart to enable security features? Isn't this just on the installation side?

Author: There are changed to the opensearch.yml file, which needs a restart to take effect, the rest of the nodes will not be able to communicate with this node after restart, therefore full cluster restart is necessary

> Disabling, removing, or installing the Security plugin requires a full cluster restart, as during this process the individual nodes are not able to communicate with each other.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Disabling, removing, or installing the Security plugin requires a full cluster restart because during this process, the individual nodes are not able to communicate with each other.
```

{: .warning}

> ## Disabling/Enabling the Security plugin

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
## Disabling/enabling the Security plugin
```

You can disable the Security plugin by editing the `opensearch.yml` file.   

```yml
plugins.security.disabled: true
```
You can then enable the plugin by removing the `plugins.security.disabled` setting.

> 

Reviewer: Is there anything they need to do on the Dashboard side when disabling the security plugin? See https://forum.opensearch.org/t/fails-on-ssl-when-using-rest-api-on-getting-started-local-docker-compose-cluster/8337.

Reviewer 2: No. The only way to "disable" security on the Dashboard side is to remove both plugins.

> ## Removing/Adding the Security plugin

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Removing and adding the Security plugin
```

> You can completely remove the Security plugin from your OpenSearch instance. Note that OpenSearch Dashboards can only run against a secure cluster, so if you uninstall the OpenSearch Security plugin, you'll have to also uninstall the Security Dashboard plugin. 

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
You can completely remove the Security plugin from your OpenSearch instance. Note that OpenSearch Dashboards can only run against a secure cluster, so if you uninstall the Security plugin, you'll also need to uninstall the OpenSearch Dashboards plugin. 
```

### Removing the Security plugin from OpenSearch

> Do the following to remove the plugin from the OpenSearch.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Do the following to remove the plugin from OpenSearch.
```

1. Disable shard allocation and stop all nodes so that you prevent shards from moving when the cluster is restarted.

   ```json
   curl -XPUT "https://localhost:9200/_cluster/settings" -u "admin:<password>" -H 'Content-Type: application/json' -d '{
      "transient": {
         "cluster.routing.allocation.enable": "none"
      }
   }'
   ```
   {% include copy.html %}
2. Delete all `plugins.security.*` configuration entries from `opensearch.yml`.

> 3. Uninstall the Security plugin by using the following command:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Uninstall the Security plugin by using the following command.
```

   ```bash
   ./bin/opensearch-plugin remove opensearch-security
   ```

> 4. Restart the nodes and enable shard allocation

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. Restart the nodes and enable shard allocation.
```

> 4. Restart the nodes and enable shard allocation.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
4. Restart the nodes and enable shard allocation:
```

   ```json
   curl -XPUT "http://localhost:9200/_cluster/settings" -H 'Content-Type: application/json' -d '{
    "transient": {
      "cluster.routing.allocation.enable": "all"
      }
   }'
   ```

To perform these steps on the Docker image, see [Working with plugins]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/opensearch/install/docker#working-with-plugins).
{: .note }

### Removing the Security plugin from OpenSearch Dashboards 

> If you disable the Security plugin in `opensearch.yml` and still want to use OpenSearch Dashboards, you must remove the corresponding OpenSearch Dashboards Security plugin. For more information, see [OpenSearch Dashboards remove plugins]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/install-and-configure/install-dashboards/plugins/#remove-plugins).

Reviewer 4: Confirm whether the linked text is the actual/exact name of the page.

> If you disable the Security plugin in `opensearch.yml` and still want to use OpenSearch Dashboards, you must remove the corresponding OpenSearch Dashboards Security plugin. For more information, see [OpenSearch Dashboards remove plugins]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/install-and-configure/install-dashboards/plugins/#remove-plugins).

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
If you disable the Security plugin in `opensearch.yml` and still want to use OpenSearch Dashboards, you must remove the corresponding OpenSearch Dashboards plugin. For more information, see [OpenSearch Dashboards remove plugins]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/install-and-configure/install-dashboards/plugins/#remove-plugins).
```

Refer to the following installation types to remove the OpenSearch Dashboards plugin.

#### Docker

> 1. Remove all Security plugin configuration settings from `opensearch_dashboards.yml` or place the example file in the same folder as the `Dockerfile`:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Remove all Security plugin configuration settings from `opensearch_dashboards.yml` or move the example file in the same folder as the `Dockerfile`:
```

> 1. Remove all Security plugin configuration settings from `opensearch_dashboards.yml` or place the example file in the same folder as the `Dockerfile`:

Reviewer 4: "move the example file to"?

   COPY --chown=opensearch-dashboards:opensearch-dashboards opensearch_dashboards.yml /usr/share/opensearch-dashboards/config/
   ```

1. To build the new Docker image, run the following command:

   ```bash
   docker build --tag=opensearch-dashboards-no-security .
   ```

1. In `docker-compose.yml`, change `opensearchproject/opensearch-dashboards:{{site.opensearch_dashboards_version}}` to `opensearch-dashboards-no-security`.
1. Change `OPENSEARCH_HOSTS` or `opensearch.hosts` to `http://` rather than `https://`.
1. Enter `docker-compose up`.

#### Tarball 

1. Navigate to the `/bin` directory in your OpenSearch Dashboards installation folder and stop the running OpenSearch Dashboards instance by pressing `Ctrl + C`.

1. Run the following command to uninstall the Security plugin:

   ```bash
   ./bin/opensearch-dashboards-plugin remove securityDashboards
   ```

1. Remove all Security plugin configuration settings from the `opensearch_dashboards.yml` file or use the following example file: 

   ```yml
   ---
   server.name: opensearch-dashboards
   server.host: "0.0.0.0"
   opensearch.hosts: http://localhost:9200
   ```
   

> 1. Start OpenSearch Dashboards.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
1. Start OpenSearch Dashboards:
```

   ```bash
   ./bin/opensearch-dashboards
   ```
   
#### RPM and Debian 

> 1. Stop the running instance of OpenSearch Dashboards by using the following command. 

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
1. Stop the running instance of OpenSearch Dashboards by using the following command:
```

   ```bash
   sudo systemctl stop opensearch-dashboards
   ```

> 1. Navigate to the OpenSearch Dashboards folder `/usr/share/opensearch-dashboards` and run the following command to uninstall the Security plugin.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
1. Navigate to the OpenSearch Dashboards folder `/usr/share/opensearch-dashboards` and run the following command to uninstall the Security plugin:
```

   ```bash
   ./bin/opensearch-dashboards-plugin remove securityDashboards
   ```

> 1. Remove all Security plugin configuration settings from the `opensearch_dashboards.yml` file or place the example file in the `/etc/opensearch_dashboards` folder.

Reviewer 4: "move the example file to"?

> 1. Remove all Security plugin configuration settings from the `opensearch_dashboards.yml` file or place the example file in the `/etc/opensearch_dashboards` folder.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
1. Remove all Security plugin configuration settings from the `opensearch_dashboards.yml` file or place the example file in the `/etc/opensearch_dashboards` folder:
```

   ```yml
   ---
   server.name: opensearch-dashboards
   server.host: "0.0.0.0"
   opensearch.hosts: http://localhost:9200
   ```

> 1. Start OpenSearch Dashboards.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
1. Start OpenSearch Dashboards:
```

   ```bash
   sudo systemctl start opensearch-dashboards
   ```

### Installing the Security plugin

> Use the following steps to reinstall the plugin. 

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Use the following steps to reinstall the plugin:
```

> 1. Disable shard allocation and stop all nodes so that you prevent shards from moving when the cluster is restarted.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
1. Disable shard allocation and stop all nodes so that shards don't move when the cluster is restarted:
```

  ```json
  curl -XPUT "http://localhost:9200/_cluster/settings" -H 'Content-Type: application/json' -d '{
    "transient": {
      "cluster.routing.allocation.enable": "none"
      }
   }'
  ```
  {% include copy.html %}
 

> 2. Install the Security plugin on all nodes in your cluster using one of the [installation methods]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/install-and-configure/plugins/#install)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Install the Security plugin on all nodes in your cluster using one of the [installation methods]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/install-and-configure/plugins/#install).
```

> 2. Install the Security plugin on all nodes in your cluster using one of the [installation methods]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/install-and-configure/plugins/#install).

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
2. Install the Security plugin on all nodes in your cluster using one of the [installation methods]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/install-and-configure/plugins/#install):
```

  ```bash
  bin/opensearch-plugin install opensearch-security
  ```
  {% include copy.html %}
  

> 3. Add the necessary configuration to opensearch.yml for TLS encryption. See

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
3. Add the necessary configuration to `opensearch.yml` for TLS encryption. See
```

> [Configuration]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/install-and-configure/configuring-opensearch/security-settings/) for details on the settings that need to be configured.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
[Configuration]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/install-and-configure/configuring-opensearch/security-settings/) for information about the settings that need to be configured.
```

4. Create the `OPENSEARCH_INITIAL_ADMIN_PASSWORD` variable. For more information, see [Setting up a custom admin password](https://opensearch.org/docs/latest/security/configuration/demo-configuration/#setting-up-a-custom-admin-password).
  

> 5. Restart the nodes and reenable shard allocation.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
5. Restart the nodes and reenable shard allocation:
```

   ```json
   curl -XPUT "https://localhost:9200/_cluster/settings" -u "admin:<password>" -H 'Content-Type: application/json' -d '{
     "transient": {
      "cluster.routing.allocation.enable": "all"
     }
   }'
   ```
   {% include copy.html %}

### Installing the Security plugin on OpenSearch Dashboards

> Use the following steps to reinstall the plugin on OpenSearch Dashboards. 

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Use the following steps to reinstall the plugin on OpenSearch Dashboards:
```

1. Stop running your OpenSearch Dashboards cluster. 
2. Install the Security plugin:

   ```bash
      ./bin/opensearch-dashboards-plugin install securityDashboards
   ```
   

> 4. Add the necessary [Configuration]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/install-and-configure/install-dashboards/tls/) settings in the `opensearch_dashboards.yml` file.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
4. Add the necessary [configuration]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/install-and-configure/install-dashboards/tls/) settings in the `opensearch_dashboards.yml` file.
```

> 5. Start OpenSearch Dashboards. If the plugin was successfully installed, you'll be prompted to enter your log in credentials.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
5. Start OpenSearch Dashboards. If the plugin was successfully installed, you'll be prompted to enter your login credentials.
```

> 5. Start OpenSearch Dashboards. If the plugin was successfully installed, you'll be prompted to enter your log in credentials.

Reviewer 4: "login" as a noun and "log in" as a verb.
